### **Thinking in Java 21 - Annotations**

<big>Annotations (also known as *metadata*) provide a formalized way to add information to your code so that you can easily use that data at some later point. </big>

The syntax of annotations is reasonably simple and consists mainly of the addition of the @symbol to the language. Java SE5 contains three general purpose built-in annotations, defined in <C>java.lang</C>

* @**Override**, to indicate that a method definition is intended to override a method in the base class. This generates a compiler error if you accidentally misspell the method name or give an improper signature.
* @**Deprecated**, to produce a compiler warning if this element is used.
* @**SuppressWarnings**, to turn off inappropriate compiler warnings.

### 1 Basic syntax


#### Defining annotations

Annotation definitions look a lot like interface definitions. In fact, they compile to class files like any other Java interface:

```Java
@Target(ElementType.METHOD) 
@Retention(RetentionPolicy.RUNTIME) 
public @interface Test {}
```

An annotation definition also requires the meta-annotations <C>@Target</C> and <C>@Retention</C>. <C>@Target</C> defines where you can apply this annotation (a method or a field, for example). <C>@Retention</C> defines whether the annotations are available in the source code, in the class files, or at run time.


Annotations will usually contain elements to specify values in your annotations. An annotation without any elements, such as <C>@Test</C> above, is called a **marker annotation**.


Here is a simple annotation that tracks use cases in a project. <C>id</C> and <C>description</C> are elements, which resemble method declarations.

```Java
@Target(ElementType.METHOD) 
@Retention(RetentionPolicy.RUNTIME) 
public @interface UseCase {
    public int id();
    public String description() default "no description"; 
}
```

Here is a class with three methods annotated as use cases:

```Java
public class PasswordUtils {
  @UseCase(id = 47, description =
  "Passwords must contain at least one numeric")
  public boolean validatePassword(String password) {
    return (password.matches("\\w*\\d\\w*"));
  }
  @UseCase(id = 48)
  public String encryptPassword(String password) {
   return new StringBuilder(password).reverse().toString();
  }
  @UseCase(id = 49, description =
  "New passwords can't equal previously used ones")
  public boolean checkForNewPassword(
    List<String> prevPasswords, String password) {
    return !prevPasswords.contains(password);
  }
}
```

Note that values of the annotation elements are expressed as name-value pairs in parentheses.



#### Meta-annotations

There are currently only three standard annotations (described earlier) and four meta-annotations defined in the Java language. The meta-annotations are for annotating annotations:


* <C>@Target</C>: Where this annotation can be applied. The possible <C>ElementType</C> arguments are:
    * <C>CONSTRUCTOR</C>: Constructor declaration
    * <C>FIELD</C>: Field declaration (includes <C>enum</C> constants) 
    * <C>LOCAL_VARIABLE</C>: Local variable declaration 
    * <C>METHOD</C>: Method declaration
    * <C>PACKAGE</C>: Package declaration 
    * <C>PARAMETER</C>: Parameter declaration 
    * <C>TYPE</C>: Class, interface (including annotation type), or enum declaration
* <C>@Retention</C>: How long the annotation information is kept. The possible <C>RetentionPolicy</C> arguments are: 
    * <C>SOURCE</C>: Annotations are discarded by the compiler.
    * <C>CLASS</C>: Annotations are available in the class file by the compiler but can be discarded by the VM. 
    * <C>RUNTIME</C>: Annotations are retained by the VM at run time, so they may be read reflectively.
* <C>@Documented</C>: Include this annotation in the Javadocs.
* <C>@Inherited</C>: Allow subclasses to inherit parent annotations.


### 2 Writing annotation processors

Here is a very simple annotation processor that reads the annotated <C>PasswordUtils</C> class and uses reflection to look for <C>@UseCase</C> tags. Given a list of <C>id</C> values, it lists the use cases it finds and reports any that are missing:

```Java
public class UseCaseTracker {
  public static void trackUseCases(List<Integer> useCases, Class<?> cl) {
    for(Method m : cl.getDeclaredMethods()) {
      UseCase uc = m.getAnnotation(UseCase.class);
      if(uc != null) {
        System.out.println("Found Use Case:" + uc.id() +
          " " + uc.description());
        useCases.remove(new Integer(uc.id()));
      }
    }
    for(int i : useCases) {
      System.out.println("Warning: Missing use case-" + i);
    }
  }
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    List<Integer> useCases = new ArrayList<Integer>();
    Collections.addAll(useCases, 47, 48, 49, 50);
    trackUseCases(useCases, PasswordUtils.class);
  }
}
```